## Implementation of Breadth First Search

An alternative algorithm called Breath-First search provides us with the ability to return the same results as DFS but with the added guarantee to return the shortest-path first. This algorithm is a little more tricky to implement in a recursive manner instead using the queue data-structure, as such I will only being documenting the iterative approach. The actions performed per each explored vertex are the same as the depth-first implementation, however, replacing the stack with a queue will instead explore the breadth of a vertex depth before moving on. This behavior guarantees that the first path located is one of the shortest-paths present, based on number of edges being the cost factor.

We'll assume our Graph is in the form:
```py 
graph = {'A': set(['B', 'C']),
         'B': set(['A', 'D', 'E']),
         'C': set(['A', 'F']),
         'D': set(['B']),
         'E': set(['B', 'F']),
         'F': set(['C', 'E'])}
```

## Connected Component

Similar to the iterative DFS implementation the only alteration required is to remove the next item from the beginning of the list structure instead of the stacks last.

```py
def bfs(graph, start):
    visited, queue = set(), [start]
    while queue:
        vertex = queue.pop(0)
        if vertex not in visited:
            visited.add(vertex)
            queue.extend(graph[vertex] - visited)
    return visited

bfs(graph, 'A')
```

## Paths

This implementation can again be altered slightly to instead return all possible paths between two vertices, the first of which being one of the shortest such path.

```py
def bfs_paths(graph, start, goal):
    queue = [(start, [start])]
    while queue:
        (vertex, path) = queue.pop(0)
        for next in graph[vertex] - set(path):
            if next == goal:
                yield path + [next]
            else:
                queue.append((next, path + [next]))

list(bfs_paths(graph, 'A', 'F'))
```
[['A', 'C', 'F'], ['A', 'B', 'E', 'F']]


Knowing that the shortest path will be returned first from the BFS path generator method we can create a useful method which simply returns the shortest path found or ‘None’ if no path exists. As we are using a generator this in theory should provide similar performance results as just breaking out and returning the first matching path in the BFS implementation.

```py

def shortest_path(graph, start, goal):
    try:
        return next(bfs_paths(graph, start, goal))
    except StopIteration:
        return None

shortest_path(graph, 'A', 'F')
```
